                             SFGUI code guidelines
                            Last change: 2011-08-23

1. INTRODUCTION

This file gives information about some code guidelines for the SFGUI project.
The main reason is to keep the code style and behaviour of the whole library as
consistent as possible.


2. COMMITS/CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE REPOSITORY

We're very thankful for every patch, commit or contribution for SFGUI. The
upstream repository at GitHub got frequented in the past, because whole
histories of contributor's commits were applied to master.

So here are some rules to follow so that your commits are applied:

- Before sending in a pull request, rebase your work to the current master's
  HEAD. You can do this by invoking "git pull --rebase origin master" (make
  sure you're locally in your master branch). Another possible way is "git
  fetch origin", then "git rebase origin/master".

- Squash your commits before requesting a pull! That means combine all your
  single commits of your contribution into bigger commits (preferably one big
  commit, but this depends on the changes).

- Just to make it clear: Try to avoid the merge workflow.

Here's an example of a typical session:

- Checkout a separate branch:

    git checkout -b cool_feature

- Program and do some commits.

- Now someone has pushed new commits to upstream's master. Because you want
  those new changes to be in your cool_feature branch too, REBASE your commits on
  top of them:
  
    git pull --rebase origin master
  
  (this may require you to solve some merge conflicts; be sure to read Git's
  output!!!).

- Program and do some commits, again. Done with the new feature, now it's time
  to prepare it for a pull request.

- At first make sure all your commits are really applied ON TOP OF HEAD of
  origin's master:
  
    git pull --rebase origin master

- Checkout master and merge the branch:

    git checkout master
    git merge cool_feature

- Squash away unnecessary commits by combining them:

    git rebase -i origin/master

- Send pull request.


3. CODE STYLE

Check the sources of SFGUI to see how code is formatted. Formatting code is
like a religion for programmers, but please stick to SFGUI's style if you're
about to contribute source code.


4. GENERAL RULES

  1. No definitions in class declarations: Do not define something within a
     class declaration. That includes methods: Even if they're short, do not
     auto-inline by defining it.

     NO:
     class Foo {
       void Bar() { ... }
     };

     YES:
     class Foo {
       void Bar();
     };

  2. Pay attention at const-correct method signatures. Getters mostly return
     const references — an exception are built-in C++ types like int, char etc.

     NO:
     sf::String GetText();

     YES:
     const sf::String& GetText() const;

  3. Use clear and full names, especially for method names.

     NO:
     void SetPos();

     YES:
     void SetPosition();

  4. Always use new-style casts. Avoid reinterpret_cast and const_cast whenever
     possible.

     NO:
     float foo = (float)4;

     YES:
     float foo = static_cast<float>( 4 );
